The sad result in the end is that no way exists to be 100% secure—
unless you unplug all electronic devices and move to the mountains.
Because that isn’t too practical, nor is it a lot of fun, this book discussesways to become more aware and educated about the attacks out there and
then outlines methods that you can use to protect against them. My motto is
“security through education.” Being educated is one of the only surefire ways
to remain secure against the increasing threats of social engineering and
identity theft. Kaspersky Labs, a leading provider of antivirus and protection
software, estimated that more than 100,000 malware samples were spread
through social networks in 2009. In a recent report, Kaspersky estimated that
“attacks against social networks are 10 times more successful” than other
types of attacks.
The old hacker adage, “knowledge is power” does apply here. The more
knowledge and understanding one has of the dangers and threats of social
engineering each consumer and business can have and the more each
attack scenario is dissected, the easier it will be to protect from, mitigate,
and stop these attacks. That is where the power of all this knowledge will
come in.
Why This Book Is So Valuable
Many books are available on the market on security, hacking, penetration
testing, and even social engineering. Many of these books have very valuable
information and tips to help their readers. Even with all that the information
available, a book was needed that takes social engineering information to
the next level and describes these attacks in detail, explaining them from the
malicious side of the fence. This book is not merely a collection of cool
stories, neat hacks, or wild ideas. This book covers the world’s first
framework for social engineering. It analyzes and dissects the very
foundation of what makes a good social engineer and gives practical advice
on how to use these skills to enhance the readers’ abilities to test the
biggest weakness—the human infrastructure.
The Layout
This book offers a unique approach to social engineering. It is structured
closely to the in-depth social engineering framework found at www.social-engineer.org/framework. This framework outlines the skills and the tools
(physical, mental, and personality) a person should strive to possess to be
an excellent social engineer.
This book takes a “tell and show approach” by first presenting a principle
behind a topic then defining, explaining, and dissecting, then showing its
application using collections of real stories or case studies. This is not
merely a book about stories or neat tricks, but a handbook, a guide through
the dark world of social engineering.
Throughout the book you can find many Internet links to stories or
accounts as well as links to tools and other aspects of the topics discussed.
Practical exercises appear throughout the book that are designed to help you
master not only the social engineering framework but also the skills to
enhance your daily communications.
These statements are especially true if you are a security specialist. As
you read this book, I hope to impress upon you that security is not a “part-
time” job and is not something to take lightly. As criminals and malicious
social engineers seem to go from bad to worse in this world, attacks on
businesses and personal lives seem to get more intense. Naturally,
everyone wants to be protected, as evidenced by the increase in sales for
personal protection software and devices. Although these items are
important, the best protection is knowledge: security through education. The
only true way to reduce the effect of these attacks is to know that they exist, to
know how they are done, and to understand the thinking process and
mentality of the people who would do such things.
When you possess this knowledge and you understand how malicious
hackers think, a light bulb goes off. That proverbial light will shine upon the
once-darkened corners and enable you to clearly see the “bad guys” lurking
there. When you can see the way these attacks are used ahead of time, you
can prepare your company's and your personal affairs to ward them off.
Of course, I am not contradicting what I said earlier; I believe there is no
way to truly be 100% secure. Even top-secret, highly guarded secrets can be
and have been hacked in the simplest of manners.
Look
at
the
archived
story
at www.social-
engineer.org/resources/book/TopSecretStolen.htm, from a newspaper inOttawa, Canada. This story is very interesting, because some documents
